In this demo,
I will add a user on our cluster
that we spun up with kops,
and I will show you how RBAC works.
I have here in my git repository a folder, users,
and this one has a README,
and we are going to do the same as we did
in the Minikube lecture about authentication.
You're going to create a new user.
To be able to create a new user,
I need to create a new certificate.
And to create a new certificate,
I need to copy my CA key and my CA certificate
from the kops state S3 directory.
So I can do that using aws s3 sync,
and this will sync those two directories.
In each of these directories,
you have a key and certificate.
So I'm just going to move these
so they have the file ca-key and ca.crt.
To create a new SSO certificate I need to open SSO
and just make sure it is installed.
I first create a new key for myself.
I'm going to create a new certificate request
using CN Edward, which is going to be my login.
Then I assign this using the CA cert and a CA key.
Now I have a key and a certificate,
and I should be able to login to the Kubernetes cluster.
To do that, I am going to create a new context,
which means I am going to create entries
in my Kube config file so that I have a new context
that I can use, that then will use this new certificate.
So I'm going to execute these commands,
creating a new user using kubectl config,
set the credentials.
I am setting the credentials for user Edward
using my Edward certificate and Edward key file.
Then I will create a new context
using the cluster that I already have.
So maybe it makes sense to show you config view,
which shows that I have a cluster here
with the name kubernetes.newtech.academy
with the server api.kibernetes.newtech.academy.
This is the server I am referring to.
So I'm going to create a new context,
context called Edward,
using this cluster, using this user.
So I will now do config get-contexts.
Get-contexts, I will see I have now two contexts.
One is my current context that I'm using,
if I use kubectl, this is the context, and the cluster,
and the user that will be used to execute commands.
It's kubernetes.newtech.academy,
the cluster kubernetes.newtech.academy
and the user is also that one.
Now, my other context has the name Edward
and will use the user Edward, still the same cluster.
So if I do kubectl get nodes,
I will now use still my admin user,
which is this one.
If I do kubectl config use-context Edward,
I will use this context.
If I do get-context, now the star is here,
so this is the current context.
If I do kubectl get nodes,
I get nodes is forbidden.
User Edward cannot list nodes
at the current cluster scope,
because I don't have permissions yet.
So now I can authenticate,
but I haven't set any roles using RBAC,
so I have no permissions.
Here were are talking about authorization.
So I'm going to switch, again, my context
to kubernetes.newtech.academy,
and then I am going to add admin-user.yaml.
So here I have a cluster role binding.
I am binding my user Edward to the role cluster-admin.
The role cluster-admin is a role that already exists,
it's just an admin role.
So if you wanted to give someone an admin role,
you just do create admin-user.yaml,
going to switch the context now,
kubectl get nodes, and here now I can execute
the same commands as the admin user.
I'm going to switch again, kuberctl config use-context,
kubernetes.newtech.academy.
I'm going to delete this admin role,
and I'm going to add just user.yaml.
Then I already added those earlier,
so I can just delete those.
So I'm going to create them again.
So now they have been created,
user.yaml, let me show you what's in there.
This is of kind role,
which means it's specific to one namespace,
and the namespace is default.
On the default namespace I will be able
for resources pods, I will be able to do
get, watch, list, create, update, patch, and delete.
So here it says pod-reader,
but actually it should be pod-writer
because it can also update and create.
For extensions, apps, and deployments
I will also be able to do get, list,
watch, create, update, patch, and delete.
Then I bind this role to the user Edward.
So here is the role reference.
So pod-reader, and here pod-reader.
So it's a bad name.
I will actually change its name after the demo
in my GitHub repository.
It's actually pod-writer, not reader.
I mean, you can choose the name yourself,
it's just that I didn't pick a great name for this one.
So I apply this,
now I'm going to switch my context again,
and let's do get nodes, forbidden.
Let's try to do get pods.
No resources found, which means I can even run a pod.
I'm not getting forbidden,
it just says that it works.
There's just no pods on this cluster.
Even I'll try gt pods kube-system.
Now forbidden, user Edward cannot list pods
in the namespace kube-system.
So now I am contained to this namespace,
the default namespace, but it could also be a namespace
that you added, like a custom namespace
that you have given a custom name.
So that's where you can contain users
to specific namespaces.
Give them their roles, only those roles that they need
or that you want to give them.
So this is how RBAC works.
Nowadays RBAC people are not using
any of the old ones anymore.
This is also something that you should have on by default,
kops enables it by default, Minikube not yet.
But at some point it will also do it.